With those lyrics ringing in our ears,
it puts us in the mind for the next talk
to be delivered by Brother Kenneth Cook.
The title is “Look Beyond the Finish Line.”
Brother Cook, you have piqued our interest.
You have completed your Gilead schooling.
You’ve done well,
and we warmly commend you.
You’ve reached
the finish line for this school.
When the program concludes,
you will be a graduate.
You’ve run this course, so to speak,
with that goal in mind, haven’t you?
Yet, through it all,
you’ve also kept in mind that,
for you, this experience
is a part of a bigger race
—the race for life.
Like determined runners,
loyal servants of God keep moving forward
after each goal in their service to him.
Such goals are like stages in a race.
Some of our goals and our pace may vary
from person to person based on circumstances.
For you, Gilead School
is a goal, or stage,
that you have now completed.
But keep running!
See, we run until we reach
what our faith shows us,
the prize waiting
beyond the ultimate finish line
—everlasting life in the service of Jehovah.
The promises found in God’s Word
move us to keep reaching out for that prize.
Consider the apostle Paul,
who was reaching out for the heavenly hope.
At 2 Timothy 4:7, 8,
he indicated
that he had reached the finish line.
His prize was in sight,
and it was reserved for him.
He said: “I have fought the fine fight,
“I have run the race to the finish,
I have observed the faith.
“From this time on, there is reserved for me
the crown of righteousness.”
With strong faith,
Paul could see beyond the finish line
and he yearned for the reward
that he would receive.
And then there is Jesus’ example.
Just before breathing his last,
he cried out: “It has been accomplished!”
Throughout his earthly ministry,
that goal to accomplish
Jehovah’s will for him
never left his sight.
No matter how painful
his life course proved to be,
Jesus kept his integrity
and finished that course,
like the true Son of God that he is.
In all of this, Jesus saw
more than just the finish line.
He saw the endless joy
that was waiting for him.
So powerful is Jesus’ example
that Hebrews 12:2 urges us
to keep it centered in our sight.
We invite you to follow along there
with Hebrews 12:2.
It says: “. . . as we look intently
“at the Chief Agent
and Perfecter of our faith, Jesus.
“For the joy that was set before him
he endured a torture stake,
“despising shame, and has sat down
at the right hand of the throne of God.”
Who are we urged to look at intently?
The “Perfecter of our faith, Jesus.”
And what did Jesus look at?
What did he see?
He saw the joy that his faith
placed directly in front of him.
Jesus focused on the joy that would result
from his life course of perfect integrity,
from providing the ransom for us,
and from being back alongside
his heavenly Father.
Jesus never took his eyes off the prize
waiting beyond the finish line,
and neither should we.
Let’s look at some important lessons
that will help all of us
to complete the race for life.
We will consider two main points:
first, how should you run
each stage of the race?
and, second, qualities that will help you
to run like a true Christian and win.
Now, for the first point:
How should you run each stage of the race?
The race for life is a race of endurance,
and as mentioned, it includes stages,
or successive goals.
We strive for each goal
at our individual best pace
and with a clear focus
on the ultimate goal, or prize.
First Timothy 6:19
calls that prize “the real life”
—that is, everlasting life in perfection,
either in heaven or on earth.
As mentioned, your Gilead training
is now a completed stage of the race for you.
With humility, apply all
that you have learned
and remain focused
on the endless joy ahead of you.
When hardships and difficulties come
—and they will—
keep moving forward.
If you are knocked down by anything,
get back up and run with determination,
with everything that you’ve got.
Be like the marathon runner
from the country of Tanzania
who ran in the 1968 Olympics
held in Mexico City.
At one point during that race,
he was bumped by other runners,
and he fell to the ground so hard
that he gashed his knee and dislocated it.
He also smashed his shoulder
against the pavement.
Yet, after receiving some medical attention,
he refused to stop running.
He continued in the race.
His pace was slower,
but he moved forward toward his goal.
He was no longer running
for a mere material prize.
He was running to complete the race
with his honor intact
and that of the land he represented.
He finished the race.
In the race for life,
you may experience times
when you feel as if someone or something
is trying to knock you down.
What will you do?
Learn from what happened to the Galatians.
When some in the first century
allowed the speech and actions of others
to knock them out of the race,
notice what Paul said to them
at Galatians 5:7, 8.
Imagine that he has an incredulous tone
as he speaks to them and states in verse 7:
“You were running well.
“Who hindered you
from continuing to obey the truth?
This sort of persuasion
does not come from the One calling you.”
What was the problem?
Some in Galatia had allowed themselves
to be persuaded by false teachings,
and they were no longer obeying the truth.
They gave in to pressure.
Also, in verse 13,
Paul refers to the danger
of “fleshly desires.”
Whatever happened to them,
those Christian runners were “hindered,”
as he said, because they
took their eyes off of the prize.
All of us must keep
that lesson in front of us.
If we do, we will never be hindered
or thrown off course
in our pursuit of the real life.
We will be rock solid in our focus.
When others see that you are looking
straight ahead toward the prize,
they’re helped to look in the same direction.
Continue to be a real stabilizing influence
in the branches where you will serve.
So for our first point,
how should you run each stage of the race?
Run at your very best pace
and with a clear focus on your ultimate goal
—the real life.
Now, for our second main point:
qualities that will help you
to run like a true Christian and win.
We run as true Christians
when we follow the example of Christ.
Jesus’ example
of doing all things for Jehovah’s glory,
despite the suffering that he endured,
is one that we must follow.
First Peter 2:21 reminds us
that “Christ suffered for you,
leaving a model for you
to follow his steps closely.”
Let’s consider two qualities
that Jesus had in abundance
and that we must imitate closely
—faith and courage.
For each quality,
we will look at why we need it to win.
So we begin with faith.
Now, you do not need
to be told what faith is.
You have it, and you’ve learned much
about examples of faith in your studies.
We need faith
because faith helps us to endure,
and faith helps us to remember
that our trials in life are temporary.
We look ahead with confidence,
we see beyond the troubles of today,
and we trust Jehovah every step of the way.
You needed to have faith
after you arrived for this school
and then had to wait patiently
for some months for your classes to begin.
True?
You no doubt wondered:
‘When will the classes start?
How will they be carried out in a pandemic?’
You waited, and in due time
your faith was rewarded.
Jehovah saw to it
that things worked out, didn’t he?
Your instructors
and so many others working with them
ensured that the school moved forward safely
and that you received
the full benefit from the classes.
That experience highlights the kind of faith
that all of us will need in the days ahead
whenever new challenges arise.
You could say
that 20/20 vision will be necessary
for each of us to keep running successfully.
And I don’t mean the year 2020.
True Christians look far ahead
with clear,
spiritual vision
—that’s the point—
and remain focused
on the prize beyond the finish line.
Those without faith cannot see it.
They cannot focus on things unseen.
But those with faith can see it.
That is why they
—why you—
remain focused on Jehovah’s promises.
The Scriptures urge us to keep looking ahead.
An example of this is found
at 2 Corinthians 4:17, 18
—2 Corinthians 4:17, 18.
Now, when writing these inspired words,
Paul was encouraging the brothers
not to allow problems,
difficulties, and persecutions
to cloud or block their view
of the glorious reward
that was set before them.
Please look at what is said
starting in verse 17:
“For though the tribulation
is momentary and light,
“it works out for us a glory
“that is of more and more
surpassing greatness and is everlasting;
“while we keep our eyes,
“not on the things seen,
but on the things unseen.
“For the things seen are temporary,
but the things unseen are everlasting.”
Again, these inspired words
should move us
to look beyond the trials we face
and to remain focused on what is ahead of us.
Paul was speaking
to those with the heavenly hope.
But the encouragement
and meaning behind these words
apply to all
who are running for the real life,
that is, for the things “everlasting,”
as it says here.
When we are determined and focused,
we are helped to press on each day.
Proverbs 4:25 tells us
to “look straight ahead . . . ,
fix [your eyes or] your gaze
straight ahead of you.”
To keep doing that, we need faith.
We need good spiritual eyesight to see
what is otherwise “unseen,” as Paul said.
Keep in mind
that the objective of your Gilead training
is to strengthen and stabilize
the field and branch organization.
Whether a brother or sister,
your example of faith
goes a long way in doing that.
Others will imitate the faith
and example of a determined runner.
When you are settled in your assignments,
keep your eyes of faith
set on doing God’s will.
Danger can come when you start to feel
that you’ve achieved
most or even all of your goals.
What could be the result?
When we lose sight
of the race and of its prize,
our interests will focus
on other things,
perhaps material things.
Don’t let this happen to you.
Never allow distractions
to pull you off of the Christian course,
and avoid ever becoming self-satisfied
because of privileges
that you may come to enjoy.
Focus on the real life, and remain humble.
Appreciate your privileges
in Jehovah’s service,
but remain focused on what you desire most
—pleasing Jehovah and doing his will forever.
As we read earlier in Hebrews chapter 12,
when Jesus suffered unjustly
to the point of death,
he endured “for the joy
that was set before him.”
He always looked at what was ahead of him.
The reward that he longed for
was clear to him.
It was that real to him.
We must always remember Jesus’ example
as we keep looking ahead.
Maintain your strong faith
by reading God’s Word every day
and applying its counsel
in everything that you do.
We endure in the race with courage
when our faith is strong.
And that is the second quality
we will now look at
—courage, why we need courage to win.
True Christians have courage
that stems from their faith.
We live with hope, with expectation
—and not just any expectation
but “assured expectation,”
as the Scriptures call it.
When your rescue is assured,
it gives you courage, doesn’t it?
Imagine how Jeremiah felt when Ebed-melech
and 30 other men arrived
to pull him up out of a deep cistern.
What could have seemed hopeless
was now a moment filled with hope,
and he continued on with courage.
Courage moves us
to look beyond any obstacles
that may stand
between us and the finish line.
The fact is that nothing promised
in God’s Word will fail to come true.
So take courage.
Keep in mind
that your determination to do God’s will
means that for you the prize will be waiting.
Jehovah cannot lie.
Therefore, as you go to your assignments,
remain calm and assured of Jehovah’s help.
True, great changes
have taken place in the world
since you arrived for Gilead School.
But though the world is changing around us
(and certainly not for the better),
remember Jehovah’s promises.
What we see happening is temporary.
A pandemic—nothing new!
Jesus foretold it
—didn’t he?—
“pestilences,” he called it,
“in one place after another.”
So we’re not shaken by this.
We have faith and courage,
and we keep going, don’t we?
Think back to the Olympic marathon runner
from Tanzania whom we mentioned earlier.
After being injured,
he was bandaged and then continued to run.
It took courage and determination to run,
and sometimes walk, through the pain.
When he eventually crossed the finish line,
he was cheered by the small crowd
remaining in the stadium.
Now, try to imagine:
He was limping
with his bandages blowing in the wind,
but he moved forward toward his goal.
For many, the race would have been long over.
But that man was running
for something more than a material prize.
He saw something greater
beyond that finish line.
What was it?
We find it in what he said afterward.
When he was asked
why he continued on in the race, he replied:
“My country did not send me
5,000 miles to start the race.
They sent me 5,000 miles to finish the race.”
That sense of responsibility
gave him the courage
to go on despite the pain.
He saw a greater purpose,
and he returned home with honor.
We too have a greater responsibility
and a far more important race.
We owe it to Jehovah
to keep running the Christian course.
He and his Son gave everything,
you could say, so that we can keep running.
We also owe it to others
to set a good example for them
that will motivate them never to give up.
And we owe it to ourselves
to use what we have been given
so as to run in a way
that we gain the real life.
We are certain
that you have both the faith and the courage
to run with the eyes of your heart
looking intently at Jesus’ example
and at the prize.
So in review, what is the overall lesson
for you Gilead graduates and, really,
for every Christian runner?
It is this: Run for the real life
at your very best pace
(Jehovah will help you),
run with a clear focus on your ultimate goal,
and run the course
with faith and with courage.
When will the finish line be reached?
For those who will live forever on earth,
the Revelation Climax  book
states this in chapter 11:
“By exercising faith
throughout Jesus’ Millennial Reign
“and during the decisive test that follows,
“these will be rewarded
with life everlasting in Paradise on earth.
“Their names
will then remain indelibly written
in the book of life.”
For true servants of God,
that “decisive test” will be nothing to fear.
They will never drop out of the race.
For them, that test will be just another day
on the calendar, so to speak.
They will keep going
with their eyes fixed
on what is ahead for them.
Faith, courage, and all other godly qualities
will carry loyal ones into the real life.
Use your Gilead training
to run the race well.
Strengthen others to do the same.
See the prize ahead of you.
And follow Jesus’ steps closely.
Run the race
through the approaching great tribulation,
and then keep running like a true Christian.
Because of the circumstances, the students
have already received their diplomas.
But we know you would like to see them
and hear where they are being assigned.
So I’m happy to have
Brother Ronald Curzan with me.
He serves as a helper
to the Teaching Committee.
And why am I happy?
Because he’s going to pronounce
all the students’ names for me
and let us know their assignments.
Brother Curzan, we are waiting on you.
Brother and Sister James
will be returning to Trinidad and Tobago.
Brother Kasambala
will be returning to Malawi.
Brother Lee will be serving
in the United States.
Brother and Sister Luzitu
will be returning to Congo (Kinshasa).
Sister Manansala will be returning
to the Philippines.
Brother and Sister Mejia
will be returning to Colombia.
Brother Mkorongo
will be returning to Malawi.
Sister Mtetwa
will be returning to Zimbabwe.
Brother Pereira will be returning to Brazil.
Brother and Sister Phongsri
will be returning to Thailand.
Brother Reyes will be returning to Mexico.
Brother and Sister Santiago
will be returning to the Philippines.
Brother and Sister Sossou
will be returning to Côte d’Ivoire.
Brother and Sister Tendeng
will be returning to Senegal.
Brother and Sister Thompson
will be returning to Zambia.
Brother Tkachuk will be returning to Ukraine.
Brother Zak will be returning to Korea.
Thank you, Brother Curzan.
Well, we have seen them couple by couple
and person by person.
But would you like to see all 25
of these happy graduates together?
There they are.
We can just imagine the applause
from all of your individual apartments
and homes out there.
Ron Curzan is still with us,
and that is because we are going to have
a letter read from the class.
And since he already knows
how to pronounce the brother’s name,
I’m going to let Ron introduce him again.
The class letter will be read
by Brother Phongsri.
“To the Governing Body and the Bethel family:
“We were so excited
when we received our invitations
“to attend the 149th class of Gilead.
“However, when it was announced
“that the 149th class would be postponed,
“anxiety filled our hearts
“as to what our future would be.
“To help in allaying this anxiety,
“the Governing Body made loving decisions
“to comfort us.
“We never felt abandoned or forgotten.
“One thing we were absolutely confident of
“was that the Governing Body
would do all they could
“to make sure we had the class!
“We are ever thankful for the Bethel family
“who warmly welcomed us
“into their hearts and their home.
“It seemed every day someone would ask:
“‘Do you need anything?’
or ‘How can I help you?’
“We have observed this beautiful,
obedient Bethel family
“and have learned a lot,
especially how to show personal interest
“in concrete ways during difficult times.
“We can say that we had practical lessons
“in endurance, love,
“concern for others, trust in Jehovah,
“obedience, and shepherding.
“This is an example
“that we will take with us in our hearts
“and try to reflect
in our dealings with others.
“Once the school started, we could see
Jehovah’s hand in the arrangements
“and how the brothers taking the lead
trusted in Jehovah
“and the arrangements he had in place.
“As one of our first lessons,
“we want to follow their fine example
“in showing trust in Jehovah
“for whatever lies ahead.
“We were touched by the sincerity
“of our instructors, ‘gifts in men,’
“who helped us to broaden and improve
“our understanding of the Scriptures.
“It is our heartfelt desire
“to do as the psalmist sang
“at Psalm 105:1:
“‘Give thanks to Jehovah,
“‘call on his name,
“make his deeds known among the peoples!’
“Yes, we want to share what we have learned
“with humble hearts,
“all to the praise of our Grand Instructor,
“Jehovah God.
“More than that, we are determined
to use all that we have learned
“to continue to grow spiritually
“and be used in whatever way
Jehovah decides to use us.
“All that we experienced during our time here
“makes us appreciate
“our loving worldwide brotherhood
all the more
“and continues to give us insight
“into what it will be like to live together
“in Jehovah’s new world.
“We take all these memories
and lessons we learned here
“on to our assignments,
“and we are determined
“to follow your examples
“in bringing honor and glory
“to our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
“Your brothers and sisters,
the 149th Class of Gilead.”
Thank you for the beautiful sentiments
expressed in that class letter.
They were truly heartfelt.
I concluded my opening comments
with Deuteronomy 8:17, 18.
In part, it said:
“Remember that it is Jehovah your God
who gives power to you.”
You have had five months
of wonderful instruction.
You have learned so much
that you likely
did not fully appreciate before.
You have been elevated personally
by this experience.
It has improved your knowledge of God’s Word.
You may have already noticed
that your Christian personality
has developed even further
than when you came.
But always remember:
The gifts you have attained
are not by your own power and strength.
Please find with me
Isaiah 40:29-31.
The thought of a source of power
is woven throughout the Scriptures.
Verse 28 is speaking about Jehovah,
the Creator of the ends of the earth.
But let’s now read chapter 40, verse 29:
“He gives power to the tired one
and full might to those lacking strength.”
I’m old and tired.
Is Jehovah going to infuse me
with physical power and strength?
I wouldn’t complain if he chose to do so,
but that is not the kind of power
being discussed.
It’s not physical power.
Well, how do we know it isn’t?
Look at verse 30.
It says, even boys and young men
get tired physically.
Verse 30 says:
“Boys will tire out and grow weary,
and young men will stumble and fall.”
So then, what kind of power
can we expect from Jehovah
according to these verses?
It’s power to reinvigorate us spiritually.
The power to help us carry out
our theocratic activities
to the extent our physical strength allows.
It’s the power to endure the trials of life.
Now, verse 31:
“But those hoping in Jehovah
“will regain power.
“They will soar on wings like eagles.
“They will run and not grow weary;
they will walk and not tire out.”
In that verse, hope and power
are linked together.
By hoping in Jehovah
and depending on his strength,
we can soar like an eagle
far above the challenges we face.
We can accomplish
the assignments we are given.
I wasn’t sure
if I could complete this assignment
as the chairman of Gilead graduation.
But here we are
at the last part of the program.
Consider with me a final Scriptural thought
—Romans 15:13.
Here, too, hope and power
are linked together.
We can consider this as our prayer for you,
the 25 graduates of the 149th class.
Verse 13:
“May the God who gives hope
“fill you with all joy and peace
“by your trusting in him,
“so that you may abound in hope
with power of holy spirit.”
Trust absolutely in Jehovah
and not in yourself.
If you do so, the verse said
you will “abound in hope
with power of holy spirit.”
Holy spirit reminds us
of the fruitage of the spirit.
Make it a project to work
on each of the nine aspects of the spirit
mentioned in Galatians 5:22, 23.
We love all of you.
I’m still open to Romans 15.
My concluding comment to you
is in the 33rd verse:
“May the God who gives peace
“be with all of you.
Amen.”